---
area: Portland
link: portland
---
No, not the Oregon Portland, the original US Portland (in Maine).  This is a great day trip, or a good starting point if you are going to mid-coast Maine or Acadia & Bar Harbor.  It's an easy trip up from Boston, without a car, as the Amtrak Downeaster train starts at North Station (which sadly isn't connected directly to South Station, where the East Coast Corrider trains are).  There are many cute shops and lots of great pubs & restaurants in Portland.  And there is lobster, because it is Maine.  If you take the train a bit further North, you will hit Freeport, Maine, which is the home to LL Bean, a 24 hour LL Bean store, and lots of factory outlets for major US brands.  Because this is a day trip for us, we do not know hotels to stay at in Portland.  I am guessing Trip Advisor, or your choice of travel website or book will be perfectly adaquate to find one though.

Some suggestions: Eventide is the seafood darling of Portland (dog friendly patio).  Next door is an asian fusion joint, the Honey Paw.  Hugo's is the mainstay upscale restaurant in Portland.  Kelly really enjoys Central Provisions whenever she goes.  Novare Res Bier Cafe has a nice patio to drink their pretty large selection of Belgium beer on.  Finally, Gritty's is the local brewpub.  The Portland Museum of Art is also pretty good for a small city art museum, focusing on American Art. Be careful though: the city can get crowded this time a year, as it is a major port for cruise ships going up the East Coast.
